docs/guide/README.md, before:

# Introduction

Welcome to MetaMask’s Developer Documentation. This documentation is for learning to develop applications for MetaMask.

- You can find the latest version of MetaMask on our [official website](https://metamask.io/).
- For help using MetaMask, visit our [User Support Site](https://metamask.zendesk.com/).
- For up to the minute news, follow our [Peepeth](https://peepeth.com/MetaMask/), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/metamask_io) or [Medium](https://medium.com/metamask) pages.
- To learn how to contribute to the MetaMask project itself, visit our [Internal Docs](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-extension/tree/develop/docs).

## Why MetaMask

MetaMask was created to meet the needs of secure and usable Ethereum-based web sites. In particular, it handles account management and connecting the user to the blockchain.

- [Get started here](/guide/getting-started.html)
- [Learn more about our JavaScript Provider API](/guide/ethereum-provider.html)
- [Learn more about our RPC API](/guide/rpc-api.html)

## Account Management

MetaMask allows users to manage accounts and their keys in a variety of ways, including hardware wallets, while isolating them from the site context. This is a great security improvement over storing the user keys on a single central server, or even in local storage, which can allow for [mass account thefts](https://www.ccn.com/cryptocurrency-exchange-etherdelta-hacked-in-dns-hijacking-scheme/).

This security feature also comes with developer convenience: For developers, you simply interact with the globally available `ethereum` API that identifies the users of web3-compatible browsers (like MetaMask users), and whenever you request a transaction signature (like `eth_sendTransaction`, `eth_signTypedData`, or others), MetaMask will prompt the user in as comprehensible a way as possible. This keeps users informed, and leaves attackers left trying to phish individual users rather than performing mass hacks (although [DNS hacks can still be used for phishing en masse](https://medium.com/metamask/new-phishing-strategy-becoming-common-1b1123837168)).

## Blockchain Connection

MetaMask comes pre-loaded with fast connections to the Ethereum blockchain and several test networks via our friends at [Infura](https://infura.io/). This allows you to get started without synchronizing a full node, while still providing the option to upgrade your security and use the blockchain provider of your choice.

Today, MetaMask is compatible with any blockchain that exposes an [Ethereum-compatible JSON RPC API](https://eth.wiki/json-rpc/API), including custom and private blockchains. For development, we recommend running a test blockchain like [Ganache](https://www.trufflesuite.com/ganache).

We’re aware that there are constantly new private blockchains that people are interested in connecting MetaMask to, and [we are building towards easier integration with these many options](https://medium.com/metamask/metamasks-vision-for-multiple-network-support-4ffbee9ec64d).

## New Dapp Developers

- [Learning Solidity](https://karl.tech/learning-solidity-part-1-deploy-a-contract/) by karl Floersch
- [CryptoZombies](https://cryptozombies.io/)

Commit message:

Update breaking changes comms, lint (#196)
* Update breaking changes comms, lint

* Ensure people understand mobile is also affected

docs/guide/README.md, after:

# Introduction

Welcome to MetaMask’s Developer Documentation. This documentation is for learning to develop applications for MetaMask.

- You can find the latest version of MetaMask on our [official website](https://metamask.io/).
- For help using MetaMask, visit our [User Support Site](https://metamask.zendesk.com/).
- For up to the minute news, follow our [Peepeth](https://peepeth.com/MetaMask/), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/metamask_io) or [Medium](https://medium.com/metamask) pages.
- To learn how to contribute to the MetaMask project itself, visit our [Internal Docs](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-extension/tree/develop/docs).

::: danger Upcoming Breaking Changes
On **November 16, 2020** (or shortly thereafter), we are introducing changes that may break certain Ethereum web applications.
Please read our [Migration Guide](./provider-migration.html) for more details.

Action is required for Ethereum application developers only.
MetaMask users do not need to do anything.
:::

## Why MetaMask

MetaMask was created to meet the needs of secure and usable Ethereum-based web sites. In particular, it handles account management and connecting the user to the blockchain.

- [Get started here](/guide/getting-started.html)
- [Learn more about our JavaScript Provider API](/guide/ethereum-provider.html)
- [Learn more about our RPC API](/guide/rpc-api.html)

## Account Management

MetaMask allows users to manage accounts and their keys in a variety of ways, including hardware wallets, while isolating them from the site context. This is a great security improvement over storing the user keys on a single central server, or even in local storage, which can allow for [mass account thefts](https://www.ccn.com/cryptocurrency-exchange-etherdelta-hacked-in-dns-hijacking-scheme/).

This security feature also comes with developer convenience: For developers, you simply interact with the globally available `ethereum` API that identifies the users of web3-compatible browsers (like MetaMask users), and whenever you request a transaction signature (like `eth_sendTransaction`, `eth_signTypedData`, or others), MetaMask will prompt the user in as comprehensible a way as possible. This keeps users informed, and leaves attackers left trying to phish individual users rather than performing mass hacks (although [DNS hacks can still be used for phishing en masse](https://medium.com/metamask/new-phishing-strategy-becoming-common-1b1123837168)).

## Blockchain Connection

MetaMask comes pre-loaded with fast connections to the Ethereum blockchain and several test networks via our friends at [Infura](https://infura.io/). This allows you to get started without synchronizing a full node, while still providing the option to upgrade your security and use the blockchain provider of your choice.

Today, MetaMask is compatible with any blockchain that exposes an [Ethereum-compatible JSON RPC API](https://eth.wiki/json-rpc/API), including custom and private blockchains. For development, we recommend running a test blockchain like [Ganache](https://www.trufflesuite.com/ganache).

We’re aware that there are constantly new private blockchains that people are interested in connecting MetaMask to, and [we are building towards easier integration with these many options](https://medium.com/metamask/metamasks-vision-for-multiple-network-support-4ffbee9ec64d).

## New Dapp Developers

- [Learning Solidity](https://karl.tech/learning-solidity-part-1-deploy-a-contract/) by karl Floersch
- [CryptoZombies](https://cryptozombies.io/)
